ABBY:
Previously on Dance Moms...
We never discussed you
forgetting your dance
and running off the stage.
When you least expect it,
I'm going to throw you out there to do it.
You are representing my entire career.
The pressure is on you.
They need to get over it.
They've been jealous
since Maddie from day one,
and they still are.
We wanted you to say to her,
-"why did you lie?"
-Why did you lie to me?
ABBY: I keep telling you,
it's tough getting to the top.
It's even harder to stay there.
So don't go out there
and make any mistakes.
(slamming sound)
(crying)
I fell and my gut hurts.
Me and Christi.
(screaming)
Christi and I, you idiot!
Christi and I!
Coming up on Dance Moms...
-Done.
-(bleep) you.
I told you to do it for today.
These mothers,
the way they talk to you,
I think it's awful.
When those women say bad things
about you, it hurts my heart.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome, Paige.
Thank you.
(cheering and applause)
(theme music playing)
SINGER:
♪ Get up ♪
♪ Get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is with my girls
living on the dance floor ♪
(upbeat music playing)
(sirens wailing)
ABBY: Girls, let's go!
Hurry up.
Girls, you walked into this room
just as sluggish and boring
as you walked out on that stage...
zero energy.
When my girls step on stage,
they're slugs.
They walk on stage.
They do the routine.
And as the two and a half minutes go on,
you can see their stamina decline.
You have to come out there with energy.
You can't get halfway through
the number and then peter out.
(dance music playing)
You're boring.
So at the bottom of the pyramid, Maddie.
I don't feel that Maddie deserve to be
on the bottom of the pyramid
because she rocked the group dance.
I couldn't keep my eyes off of her.
She came out with a bang,
and she ended with a bang.
But you know, everybody
has to have a chance
to be on the top of the pyramid.
ABBY: Maddie, you had
an opportunity to dance.
That didn't happen.
They announced you,
and you're bawling in the audience.
That is unacceptable behavior.
You're nine years old.
When opportunity knocks,
open the door.
MADDIE: I was the very first one
on the bottom of the pyramid.
And I didn't want to let her down
and I think I did.
Next, Mackenzie.
Mackenzie, your routine
was a winning number.
You were 10.
I don't do 10.
Next, Paige.
You went out there.
You looked great.
You forgot a step.
You can't forget a step.
Brooke.
Brooke, you're here because
you give me this much.
I don't see this effervescent personality.
You see this fake little smile.
You're concentrating so much
to not screw up the dance.
You can't have fun out there.
Next, I have Nia.
Nia, again, you're here
because you showed responsibility.
You quit fooling around.
And I didn't have to hear
your mouth all day long.
Yes?
And on top of the pyramid,
again, is Chloe.
Chloe, you did your solo.
SINGER:
♪ I'll keep on burning ♪
But listen to me, I want more.
This week, we are going
to the Energy Dance Competition
in Chicago.
So we had a great competition
the last time we were in Chicago,
but we didn't win.
I'd like to win.
Nia, you and Mackenzie
will be doing a duet.
(clapping)
Paige, you have a solo.
It's not a reward.
You can screw up your own dance
by missing the choreography,
but you can't mess up other people.
Brooke, you also have a solo.
Chloe, your solo is called "Unchained."
But you know what the rule is--
you're not in class, no solo.
So we need to figure out
what went on last night.
I had three faculty members
come and tell me,
where's Chloe?
Why isn't Chloe in class?
She was at the doctor.
But you need to have some
type of common courtesy
or at least say,
"Hey, I'm taking my kid to the doctor.
I'll bring a doctor's excuse."
I have one.
ABBY: Good.
Now girls, I look at this pyramid
and I don't even want to do a group dance
because you're lazy.
You're lifeless.
And you don't give me 150%.
Now this routine is about zombies
because that's what I think
you are on stage.
You get out there
and you're like a zombie,
you're like sleeping half the time.
Holly, you're not working anymore.
You've all the time in the world.
So you are in charge of the costumes.
For the group number?
ABBY: Yes.
I am not looking forward
to creating the costumes
for this group number.
Costuming is not my specialty.
All right. Moms, you're dismissed.
Holly, don't procrastinate.
Everybody else spread apart.
(upbeat music playing)
Give me a big grand plie
and wiggle your head back.
(makes noises)
This week, the number called "Glam"
is all about zombies.
And after last week's travesty,
I really need these girls
to get it together.
I need to win.
The kids are busts on a statue.
So it's like you have the long column,
and then you have their head
sitting on top of it.
It's a very cool effect.
I hope the judges get it.
Make sure you hit that
back attitude, Paige.
SINGER:
♪ Go, go, go, go ♪
ABBY: Go Nia.
More, Paige.
It's not little.
It's big, Paige.
I don't think it's fair that Maddie
was last in the pyramid.
I'm pissed at Abby that she told
Maddie she wasn't doing a solo.
And Maddie wasn't prepared.
So Melissa, do you think
that Maddie being in--
and Mackenzie being at the bottom
of the pyramid is because of you?
I mean, like, my kids are always
on the bottom of the pyramid
because of things I did.
(chuckles)
I know.
And you know, you're not
getting along with Abby
the best right now.
Do you think that's why
she's at bottom of the pyramid?
No. Everything's fine.
I mean, it's never going to be what it was
because she doesn't need me anymore.
She has someone else to take
care of all of her business.
I'm not working at the front desk
anymore actually for Abby
because we did find someone
to replace me.
And I really don't have the time.
I miss it terribly,
and the people miss me.
I get emails every day from people.
But I just don't have the time.
I don't think it has anything to do
with me, to be honest with you.
See, I don't agree with that.
-I really don't.
-MELISSA: You don't?
The reason she's at the bottom
is because you didn't kiss her ass
and do everything she wanted
you to do last week.
I'm getting so much slack from everybody
that, you know, I always kiss
your butt and everything.
So what's the issue?
-I don't think (indistinct)
-I think you need
to confront her more.
I think Melissa has retired
from her duties
at the front desk because frankly,
she's made it quite clear
that she doesn't need to work anymore.
And I think that has caused a rift
between her and Abby
because Abby's used to Melissa
being at her beck and call.
Stand up for yourself.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Stop.
I gave that whole speech--
big! Big!
Paige is doing a solo this week, finally.
She is doing "Tongue Twister."
Now this is a number
that she did a year ago.
And we never actually finished it
and she never did it on stage.
Face!
You have the face. Use it.
This week, my solo has
a little bit of everything--
jazz, acro, gymnastics.
I like this solo a lot.
Right. Get over there in the corner.
Remember, you either make a fool
out of yourself or you win.
The option is up to you.
Go.
Brooke, let's see it.
(dance music playing)
Oh, right there.
Get in your feet.
Get off your heels.
Brooke has her work cut
out for her this week.
This solo is tough.
Her routine is called
"Paint the Picture"
because she actually makes
pictures with her body.
She has one trick after
another after another.
So her stamina needs to be built up.
And she has to knock
one out of the park.
You're dismissed.
Have your mother meet me outside, pronto.
I want to talk to you--a couple things.
-Okay.
-First of all, Paige has a prop.
She has the chair.
The chair needs some rubber
stoppers on the bottom of it
so that doesn't move
on her on stage.
-Okay.
-So I'm letting you
take that chair home tonight.
Get whatever you need done to it.
And make sure tomorrow,
she has it to practice with.
The other thing I want
to talk to you about
is Brooke and the voice lessons.
I want her to take from the woman
that teaches here.
I don't care what you've heard.
I don't care if you like her or not.
Brooke wants to sing.
And I think Brooke does have a nice voice.
But it's not about walking around
singing to your iPod.
It's learning to read sheet music,
learning your scales.
Get a clue, "mom-ager."
I manage her.
You signed the piece of paper
that I manage her.
-Okay.
-ABBY: And I want to be able to hear her.
You manage her with dance.
This is something I want
to do with my daughter.
I don't want it to have anything
to do with Abby.
And Abby is just so pushy.
She just wants to be
in charge of everything.
Well, I don't think you know
what you're doing.
Okay. If you want her to take
a voice lesson here,
I will do that.
-That's fine. I just wanted (indistinct)
-But that has to do with you
getting her this opportunity.
Kelly, why do you act this way?
I've been telling her.
I told her 20 times in the last month--
why aren't you taking voice?
Why aren't you taking voice?
You want to do it?
All right. Then do it.
When I say sing, sing.
(dramatic music playing)
-Hey.
-Hi.
-MELISSA: Um...
-Yeah.
All the kids leave
and they run to get out of here.
And my daughter, I have to drag her
by the hair to leave.
-You know how that is.
-ABBY: I know.
Since Maddie hasn't had
a solo in two weeks,
she really hasn't had that
private time with anyone
like the other girls have had.
So I just wanted her to just
have a little time with Abby
and keep her skill level up.
She hasn't been dancing
a lot this last week.
Can she have a private
with you tomorrow
-for an hour?
-An hour?
-Or whatever.
-I don't know if I have an hour.
Oh, that's fine.
Even half an hour, I don't care--
But you know, I have all
the solo music for her.
I have costumes drawn.
I have ideas.
-But she does not have the confidence.
-What?
She doesn't have the fire
even in the group dance.
She was much better
than everybody else.
When Melissa approached me about
teaching Maddie in private,
I thought, "You know what?
This is my chance
to get into Maddie's head
and find out what's going on."
Yes. Absolutely.
-Okay.
(upbeat music playing)
Cartwheel one.
Cartwheel two.
Woo.
I've selected the "Circus, Circus" music
for Mackenzie and Nia's duet.
Run, run, dive. Go.
To one knee.
Roll.
My duet this week with Nia
is an acro dance.
And I'm really excited.
And go.
One, two.
NIA:
It's called "Circus, Circus."
I love the circus.
So Mackenzie is going to be the lion.
And Nia will be the lion tamer.
It's cute.
They'll have fun doing it.
(upbeat music playing)
(singing scales)
KATHY: There it is.
When you sing C--
(nasally) You kind of got to get it
in your nose a little bit.
Abby's making me go
to her voice teacher
that she has teaching at our studio.
And her name is Kathy.
You have to open your mouth
no matter how horrible it looks.
-Hey, there you are.
-Hello.
And where have you been, miss?
-Oh, teaching.
-KATHY: Oh, well, okay.
How's she doing?
I think she can sing as well
as she wants to sing.
That's nice to hear.
I've been telling Brooke
20 times in the last month--
I've said Brooke,
"Take a voice lesson."
-All right. Now where's...
-(indistinct) almost done.
...didn't you write a song?
KATHY: Let's hear it.
♪ In that record round and round ♪
♪ Because I can't get enough
of that summer sound ♪
ABBY: Woo.
-Thank you.
-We did it. You're welcome.
ABBY: Kelly, walk your kid
30 feet down the hallway.
Take a voice lesson once a week.
That's all I'm saying.
All right. So you have to decide.
And you tell your mother,
this is what we're doing.
-Yes?
-Okay.
Because I don't want any
"mom-ager" ruining you.
(upbeat music playing)
HOLLY: Okay.
We've got step up shop.
Woo. Full of goodies.
Abby assigned me a challenge
of creating the costumes
for the group dance.
I think that Abby doesn't
think I can do it.
I refuse to give her the satisfaction
of seeing me fail.
Here are some images that I came up--
-Scary images.
-Oh, I want my kids
to wear the toe shoes.
This week's number
is all about these zombies
returning from the dead.
And they have to kind of like
breathe life back into dance
because, apparently,
they're so boring
when you watch them on stage,
according to Abby.
-The legs.
-They don't look exactly like that,
but they were the inspiration behind.
We are going to stick
together as a group.
And we are going to make the costumes.
And we're going to do them fabulous.
I think once we dye it,
then we need to get some, like,
-dark, like, black, and stuff...
-Darker.
...and like put around these edges.
We are ripping costumes.
We're cutting things up.
We're distressing them.
And then we just made some
grass stains on them.
We spent $20 on that dress.
CHRISTI: Kelly is taking all
of her frustrations for Abby
out on this poor little
prom dress on the floor,
like, digging it into the dirt,
like, I hate you, Abby.
-Oh, look at that!
-(yells)
That looks distressed.
(upbeat music playing)
Five, six, seven, go.
One--Chloe, you're too slow.
Energy! What are you doing?
Come on!
A hot pink effin' rhinestone chair.
I've heard it before.
I should have.
I was so busy trying to get
everything together
to make these costumes.
Which reminds me,
you took care of your prop, right?
That's good.
It totally slipped my mind that
I had to do all this work
to Paige's chair.
Oh, I was supposed to buy stoppers.
Uh...
ABBY: Wow. That's great energy, Brook.
Not one to make me get up
and dance--boring.
Yawning.
Sloppy.
Lazy.
She's yelling at them
because their facial expressions
are not expressing energy?
What does a zombie's facial
expression look like?
-Exactly. Like, they're dead.
-HOLLY: That's what I'm thinking, yeah.
All right.
(snaps finger)
Solo. Get your chair.
Let's go.
CHRISTI:
Paige needs her chair.
-Paige needs her chair.
-KELLY: Okay.
Okay. Go.
It's all done.
(dramatic music playing)
You're just doing it now?
Didn't you take that home last night?
I told her to take the chair.
As soon as the chair
came into the room
and I touched it
and I saw that my hands
were black with marker,
I knew right then and there,
her mother, Kelly,
left the chair in the studio.
Dingbat.
Oh, look. She's looking to see if it's--
ABBY:
Where are the stoppers?
I wanted these rubber stoppers.
I'll have them for the competition.
ABBY: No stoppers.
I mean, really?
This is important, Kelly.
Do something!
(slamming sounds)
ABBY: Done!
(gasps)
(bleep) you, Abby.
ABBY: You don't need them
for the competition.
I told you to do it for today.
Now, look at that language.
Doesn't that embarrass you
that she has to use language like that?
That's a--what a truck driver uses.
MELISSA:
Why would she do that to Paige?
CHRISTI: She threw the chair.
You're finished.
Next.
Who's solo?
KELLY:
Why are you punishing Paige?
Abby should have left the room,
came and spoke to me.
And I would have explained to her
why she had no stoppers on her chair--
because I was busy doing
Abby Lee Miller's job,
making her costumes.
Oh.
Go get Paige.
(bleep) (indistinct)
(bleep).
You know what, Abby?
We're done.
You're not doing a solo.
Neither of my kids are doing
your group dance.
-That's fine.
-KELLY: Okay?
-Good luck making--
paying your bills without my tuition.
(sobbing)
I pay for costumes and props.
And I don't get them.
I've been here all day
making costumes for you
while you were down the road eating.
Stop eating!
That's why you're fat.
Good bye.
ABBY: You were a mean girl
when you were 12.
You're still a mean girl.
(crying)
I want to go home.
We are.
Paige was frightened because
Abby is a 400-pound woman
and threw a chair
with my daughter in the room.
You can credit me for the rest
of my tuition for the month.
And rip up my credit card number.
(slams door)
(tense music playing)
KELLY: So I made an agreement
with my girls
that I would take them to the studio.
But I was gonna stay outside with the moms
and do the costumes.
I just did not want to argue with Abby.
My kids want to go in and dance.
Like, if I go in there,
she's just gonna fight with me.
-You can count on that.
-So can they go in with you and Nia?
HOLLY: I'll walk the girls in.
CHRISTI: I think Kelly came
back because she wants
to prove to Paige and Brooke
that you don't let your team down.
I'm here because my kids want to be here.
-(interposing voices)
-KELLY: Paige.
What?
Don't let her upset you.
Good thing they're children
and they, like,
can just forget about all this crap,
because I don't know.
I have a hard time forgetting it.
MELISSA: Hi, honey.
Hello.
MELISSA: What a beautiful day.
Oh, isn't it gorgeous?
It is so nice.
-Because I'm--
-ABBY: Come on, girls. Let's go.
-MELISSA: What I think is that we need a--
-Hustle. Hustle. Hustle.
ABBY:
Paige and Brooke come back into rehearsal.
I'm gonna let the kids do the dance.
It's fine.
We're good to go.
Let's take the whole group.
(upbeat music playing)
HOLLY: I got a lot of--
(interposing voices)
Aw, Claire and Mackenzie
would have fun out here.
KELLY: I think it was nice for us
to actually get outside
and work on the costumes
and get fresh air.
I just think it was a nice change for us.
Just because Abby's an ass,
-I wasn't going to screw the girls.
-The group.
KELLY: Or you guys or whatever.
I'm glad you stood up to her and went.
(upbeat music playing)
Contestant number, blank--
Chloe with "Unchained."
Chloe's routine is called "Unchained."
It's very avant garde.
It's more of a jazz repertoire.
And again,
I think this is a good number for Chloe.
Faster!
CHLOE:
I think the style and the music,
and the personality and attitude and--
it's more like darker and mysterious.
Stomach.
It felt really good to be on the pyramid
two weeks in a row.
But it's a lot of pressure.
Yes.
It's good.
HOLLY: Kelly, I am not only happy
to see you back and the girls back,
I'm also happy to see the costumes.
We did some great work yesterday.
We're wrapping up.
We've done just about
everything we could possibly do
to these costumes.
And I'm feeling really good about them.
You're the best team ever.
KELLY: I feel like a zombie.
(tense music playing)
MELISSA: Okay.
Let's hurry up and get in there.
It's really great that Maddie is going
to be able to have a technique private.
Plie flex.
Feet. Feet.
See that hip up. Feet.
I know that Melissa is worried
about Maddie not doing solo.
I know she cannot stand it that her kid
is not the center of my attention.
I get that.
Seven, eight.
Stretch back to your shoulders.
But I am not giving in.
Maddie has to want it.
You didn't have a solo last week.
You don't have a solo this week.
You need to have that fire back in you.
You love to dance,
and I know that.
MELISSA: Of course, I started to cry,
because she loves Miss Abby.
They do have this special thing.
I never had that with a teacher.
But ever since New Jersey
and you exited that stage,
you're not the same Maddie.
I don't see that fire in you.
You have to show us that you want it bad.
You know--
Hey, Mom.
Please don't cry.
She loves to be here.
You know that?
You know I love you?
-ABBY: I know.
-And when those women
say bad things about you,
it hurts my heart.
And it hurts Maddie's heart too.
MADDIE:
And I just walked right out of the room.
I was like, I'm embarrassed,
so I need to leave.
MELISSA: These mothers,
the way they talk to you.
I think it's awful how these
kids disrespect you too.
Chloe rolls her eyes
in class all the time.
-I know. I know
-What I'm upset about
is that Chloe leaves class
early all the time.
On Monday,
she went to the doctors.
And Kelly,
Christi's so-called best friend,
which they're not,
called me and said, oh, Christi is taking
Chloe's out of school early today
to take her to the doctor's.
And then she's taking her to the movies.
ABBY: Melissa, don't worry
about these three mothers
that don't know their right foot
from their left.
Who cares what they think?
They're just jealous of our relationship.
And they got to get over it,
like, you know.
That has nothing to do with Maddie.
I know that.
But always remember,
I have her best interests.
-You always have my daughters'--
-ABBY: Where did she go?
She better be somewhere
working on those feet
and not playing around.
(mellow music playing)
ABBY:
So I get on the bus and no Kelly.
Woo. Hallelujah.
Kelly can use her gas, her mileage.
She just better get there.
She better be there on time.
And those kids better be well rested.
Bus driver, where are you going?
This is not the correct way.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: We're going to Energy
Dance in Chicago, Illinois.
You know,
Chicago is the Midwest.
It's a big city.
There's lots of amazing schools
that attend the competitions.
So the girls need to come out
with more energy,
more enthusiasm, and more sass.
They can't be all about zombies.
Paige is on in 20 minutes.
And she's not in here.
She's not ready.
And I can't find her anywhere.
-CHRISTI: Maybe she's--
-She's not backstage.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: Paige is on in 20 minutes.
And she's not in here.
She's not ready.
And I can't find her anywhere.
She's not backstage.
CHRISTI: I don't know why Kelly, Brooke,
and Paige aren't at the competition.
I haven't had an opportunity
to talk to Kelly
because I'm busy getting Chloe ready.
So I don't really know
what Kelly's mindset is at this point.
She should be in here, warming up,
preparing, ready to go on.
MELISSA: My daughter is nine years old.
She's not 18.
She doesn't make her own decisions.
And I'm gonna speak for my daughter.
So I pulled Maddie aside
and had a little chat with her.
Say, "Miss Abby, I really
want to do my solo today.
I want to show you
how wonderful it is."
Like, you know how Paige is?
How she's, like, real perky.
You can't walk out like this.
You have to go in there perky,
like your perky Maddie self.
Don't go in with this face.
Remember that face,
I always say I hate that face, Maddie.
Don't freak out.
Okay?
You're fine, happy.
Turn it.
MADDIE: My mom encouraged me
to go talk to Abby
and say I was ready to do a solo.
So I'm totally confident
and I'm ready to compete.
Can you please come
in the hall with me?
You want me to come out
in the hall and run your number?
-Yeah.
-ABBY: You don't even have a number.
Maddie asked if she could talk to me.
Now, perfect example,
that's a kid taking the initiative,
asking an adult politely,
"Can I speak with you?"
Sure.
I want to do my solo.
-ABBY: Are you ready?
-MADDIE: Yes.
Can you beat everybody?
I think, yeah.
But you don't look--
you're like, yes.
I think, yes.
Maddie, if you don't want to do it,
don't do it.
-Nobody cares.
-I want to.
ABBY: You act like someone's
making you do it.
I want to do my solo.
I think I can do my solo.
I'm ready to do my solo--very wishy-washy.
That's not a game face.
That's not the Maddie face I know,
the Maddie that's jumping and warming up,
trying to psych Chloe up.
You go out there with that face,
she's gonna beat the crap out of you.
I think you don't want to dance
because you think she's gonna beat you.
MELISSA: She wants to dance.
She's just afraid of you.
ABBY: Don't talk for her.
Well, I am talking.
I'm her mom.
ABBY: Of course, without a beat,
up comes Melissa.
"Abby, she's ready.
She really wants to do this."
Da da da. Da da.
I'm like, shh.
It's not about you, Melissa.
It's not your decision.
Stop with the tears.
Babies cry, not you.
-Do you understand that?
-Yes.
It's my dance company.
I say who's dancing and who isn't.
So I'm looking at this kid
and I thought, you know what,
throw her out there.
She needs to know if she comes to me
and asks me for something,
then it means business.
And we're going through with it.
-What I'm trying to do is enter Maddie.
-Okay.
ABBY: So I'm just letting
you know that these two,
I haven't seen since we
walked in the building.
-We're not gonna scratch.
-Okay.
So we need to add Maddie--
I need you to enforce your rules.
So if you call them and they're not here,
and you call them again
and they're not here,
-then they're an automatic scratch.
-Okay.
Now I registered Maddie.
We put her in no problem.
We're good to go.
MELISSA: No. Because you have
to run your solo. Here.
Maddie is going to do her solo.
It's--you know.
CHRISTI: When Melissa walks in and
tells us that Maddie is now doing a solo,
I thought, well, it's par for the course.
I think Abby's greatest pleasure in life
is to put Maddie and Chloe
against one another.
So this is obviously something planned.
(drumbeat)
(tense music playing)
Get out there and show her
how good you are,
and that you don't need
your teacher to help you.
(upbeat music playing)
Hello.
We are dancing.
I just didn't want to deal with Abby.
I did not want to ride on a bus
with her for that long.
I haven't talked to her since we had
our argument with the chair.
I did not want to get my kids upset
before they went on stage to perform.
I've been looking all over the place.
I just walked in the room two minutes ago.
ABBY: Better late than never.
HOLLY: Kelly and Abby have
a very long history.
And I think with that long history,
there's a lot of tension.
I think those tensions
bubble up from time to time.
It's awkward.
(music playing quietly)
KELLY: Paige is running her solo
in the Green Room,
and Abby can't even have the decency
to look up from her laptop.
With Maddie during her solo,
Paige is just nonexistent to Abby.
And Paige knows it.
(tense music playing)
KELLY: Why is she dancing?
Is she in our age?
Why is Maddie dancing?
-MACKENZIE: Is she actually doing it?
-Yup.
KELLY: She was not supposed
to do a solo this week.
-MELISSA: Go watch.
-KELLY: Nothing against you, Maddie.
I'm just saying,
they need to give my kids more time
-to rehearse theirs.
-Oh, I agree.
-I agree.
-It has nothing to do with you.
I am just getting more
and more pissed off.
My girls were the ones
that had solos this week.
Abby should have been working
with them all week
instead of throwing chairs.
Somebody looks nervous.
KELLY: You know, it was my girls' week.
They finally got a solo.
She needed to work with them.
And she didn't.
I'm done.
And so are my daughters.
And I'm not letting them on that stage.
I'm pulling their solos.
Come on.
(electronic music playing)
ANNOUNCER 1: Entry number 31A,
"Tongue Twister."
Please welcome, Paige.
Thank you.
(cheers and applause)
(tense music playing)
ANNOUNCER 2:
This is entry number 31A,
Paige performing "Tongue Twister."
(cheers and applause)
ABBY: No Paige.
I just saw her 15 minutes ago
warming up in her costume.
Where is she?
ANNOUNCER 1: Judges,
please give a hand to entry number 42A,
Brooke performing...
(cheers and applause)
..."Paint the Pictures."
ABBY:
Brooke and Paige don't show up.
Once again,
Abby Lee Miller looks like the jerk.
Abby Lee Dance Company is tarnished.
Calling out their names
and them not being there,
unprofessional.
ANNOUNCER 1: Judges,
please welcome entry number 51A.
This is Chloe.
(cheers and applause)
Woo!
(contemporary music playing)
CHRISTI: Woo!
As I'm watching Chloe do her solo,
I'm thinking, she is really
knocking this out of the park.
She owns this stage.
(music continues playing)
(cheers and applause)
This time, I just decided
to stop second-guessing myself
and just go out there with confidence.
And I did.
And I thought I did really good.
So I'm going to try to do that every time.
(applause)
MADDIE: I'm really nervous
about dancing against Chloe.
But I'm more nervous for my solo,
because last time I did this solo,
I forgot it.
But I need to toughen up
and show Miss Abby that I can
be the same old Maddie.
ANNOUNCER 1:
This is Maddie performing "In My Heart."
(cheers and applause)
(mellow music playing)
SINGER:
♪I saw you in my dream last night♪
♪You had your smile so white♪
♪I thought your teeth were the stars♪
♪Your eyes, they were like tiny rivers♪
♪ Well, it gave me the shivers♪
♪When you looked right up at me♪
♪You can stay here...♪
(music skipping)
SINGER: ♪You can stay here...♪
ABBY: The CD skips.
My heart just goes... (makes sound)
into my throat.
So I'm looking at that stage.
And I am like mental telepathy,
willing that kid, stay out there.
Don't move off that stage.
(music skipping)
WOMAN: Go, Maddie!
-Awesome.
-ABBY: Keep going! Keep going!
Keep going!
(music continues playing)
-MELISSA: Woo!
-(cheers and applause)
ABBY: She never missed a beat.
It was a great way to come back
after a catastrophe.
(both laughing)
MELISSA: We did it.
My daughter is nine years old
and she handled herself
like a professional on stage.
She was amazing.
I'm so proud of her.
MADDIE: When I walked off,
I was really pleased with myself
because I just said to myself, I did it.
(cheering)
ANNOUNCER 2: Here we go.
Moving on to our
Energy Junior solos.
ABBY: I think it's a competitive thing
between Maddie and Chloe.
You always need somebody
to threaten you,
standing beside you
pushing your buttons.
That's a good
healthy competition.
ANNOUNCER 2: Third place
goes to entry number 51A,
"Unchained," Chloe
from the Abby Lee Dance Company.
(cheering and applause)
ANNOUNCER 2: Second place goes
to entry number 58A,
"In My Heart," Maddie
from the Abby Lee Dance Company.
(cheering and applause)
CHRISTI: Maddie might not have
gotten first place at the competition.
But in Abby's eyes,
she's the winner.
(cheering and applause)
(upbeat music playing)
So what are you going
to do with the group dance?
I don't know.
You know, I did not
have my kids dance
because I do not want to support
Abby as a dance teacher.
I didn't approve of the way
Abby was treating my kids.
And I did not want them
to do the group number.
But I also want
my kids to know
that you can't let a group down.
I don't want it to be
that my kids screwed up the group.
-HOLLY: No.
-We're here to support them.
-Our kids don't care.
-If you need them,
I will allow them
to dance as the group.
I just want to support
Kelly as a friend.
Whatever decision she makes,
I want to stand behind that.
She's conflicted as a mom.
What is the right decision?
If that's your choice
to have them not perform,
then we will stand by you
as your friends.
They sat in that audience
and watched your kids dance.
And I know all they wanted to do
was go and do their dances.
So I don't want to do it
to them more.
CHRISTI: Abby is a grudge holder.
And if Kelly pulls those kids
from the group,
it's just going to perpetuate
this fight longer.
(upbeat music playing)
(tense music playing)
ANNOUNCER 1:
This is "Circus, Circus."
(cheering and applause)
(acrobatic music playing)
I was so proud
of Nia and Mackenzie.
I can't wait
until they do another duet.
They were terrific.
(applause)
ANNOUNCER 2: Nice work, ladies.
I'm very proud
of Mackenzie and I,
because we pulled that
duet off in three days.
(cheering)
(indistinct chatter)
KELLY: It's time for the last number,
the group number.
And the group isn't complete
without a Brooke and Paige.
So should I let the girls dance?
I think they complete the group.
(techno music playing)
MOM: Close your eyes.
Who's doing hair?
Woo.
Looking good.
When I walked
into the dressing room,
I was thoroughly impressed.
They looked like statues.
Abby, what about
this for the blood?
I've never made blood before.
I think, honestly,
that Abby expected me to fail.
I don't think she thought
I could pull this off.
And I surprised her.
ABBY: Listen to me.
When you step out there,
I want you to look like
somebody turned you on.
Let's give me 150% energy.
Let's suck those judges in.
And let's win.
I'm sick and tired
of being top five.
Let's be on top.
ANNOUNCER 2: Please welcome
to the stage entry number 135A.
This is "Glam."
(cheering and applause)
(Plush's "Swagger" playing)
SINGER: ♪ Walk the walk
Move your hips ♪
♪ You can talk without your lips ♪
♪ Movie star, head to toe ♪
♪ Tap your shoes,
it's time to go, go, go, go, go ♪
♪ Steal the show, and show 'em
you're the beauty queen ♪
♪ Get your name
on the Walk of Fame ♪
♪ Strut ♪
MELISSA: The girls were on stage
and it is fabulous.
I think this is one
of the best dances
that our girls did on stage.
The acting was great.
The makeup, the costumes,
everything just came together.
SINGER: ♪ And move it to the beat ♪
♪ Get your swagger on
and move it to the beat ♪
♪ One, two, one, two, three ♪
♪ Get your swagger on ♪
(cheering and applause)
HOLLY: And I'm speechless.
The performance was excellent.
The energy was great
in the group dance this week.
I don't think Abby is going to have
any complaints about that.
ANNOUNCER 2: Okay.
We are moving on to our final division,
which is our Energy division.
The top scores
in our Energy division...
to top score going
to entry number 75A
for "Circus, Circus,"
the Abby Lee Dance Company.
(cheering and applause)
HOLY: Nia and Mackenzie
won first place for "Circus, Circus."
And I'm like, yes.
They won.
(cheering and applause)
(roars, laughs)
ANNOUNCER 2:
In our Energy junior small group,
we have a top three.
Third place goes
to entry number 69,
"Say My Name," from Innovation.
(applause)
ANNOUNCER 2: Our second place top score
goes to entry number 119,
"I Got You,"
Impact Dance Studio.
And our top scoring
Energy junior small group
goes to entry number 135A, "Glam,"
Abby Lee Dance Company.
(cheering and applause)
ABBY: The costumes,
the makeup, the choreography.
It all worked together.
We are back on top.
(indistinct chattering)
You won first for everything.
When's the last time
that happened?
Woo!
We did it!
-Good job, ladies.
-CHLOE: Thank you.
-Good job, Holly.
-Thank you.
KELLY: It's at the end
of the competition day
and things are winding down.
And I'm just wondering
what it is that Abby
is going to say to me.
I know that she's mad at me
for pulling their solos.
God only knows
what's going to come out of her mouth.
Maddie and Brooke, go with Gia
to get your stuff washed off.
ABBY: I look over at Kelly
and I can tell
that brain is just tick, tick, ticking.
I mean for once,
it's actually working.
She's trying to come up
with some excuse,
some reason for her kids
not to perform their solos.
Well, you know what?
I've had it.
It's time to call her out
and let her know who's boss.
KELLY: I'm disappointed that my kids
didn't get to do their solos today.
But I'm glad they did the group.
I thought it turned out good.
I think they would
have done fabulous.
But we'll never know.
No, we won't.
I saw them in their costumes.
They were--they were here, ready to go.
KELLY: Everybody else
ran there's 10 times
and had an extra day
of practice on it.
That's not fair.
My daughter
is not going to go on stage
and forget her dance again
and look like an ass
because you've made
her feel flustered.
You didn't have time
to run your dance?
What is this "run your dance" crap?
If you don't know by the time
you get to the venue,
you're not going to know it.
What else do you want me to do?
I was ready.
I was here to play ball.
I tell you to put stoppers
on a chair and paint it black.
Put stoppers on the chair
and paint it black.
Don't blame me and pass
the buck on everybody else.
You screwed up,
like you always do.
Quit enabling them.
I want kids that want to dance.
I want kids
that want to be here.
And if your kid
isn't one of them, cut your losses,
break your studio contract, and go.
And Kelly, I was the first one
at the hospital
when your husband
ran over your kid's foot.
I was in the hospital room
hugging your kid.
And now you say
those things about me.
How dare you?
Your kid doesn't want to dance.
They're lazy.
And they don't like to lose.
(door closes)